TODO.md, before:

# TODO

## Skämskudde
 - [ ] Ändra namn på variabler och funktioner så att det följer style-guide
 - [ ] Skriv tester

## Coding
 - [ ] Add new Laplace operator to DiffOps, probably named WaveEqOp(?!!?)
 - [ ] Create a struct that bundles the necessary Tensor operators for solving the wave equation.
 - [ ] Add a quick and simple way of running all tests for all subpackages.
 - [ ] Replace getindex hack for flattening tuples with flatten_tuple. (eg. `getindex.(range_size.(L.D2),1)`)
 - [ ] Use `@inferred` in a lot of tests.
 - [ ] Make sure we are setting tolerances in tests in a consistent way
 - [ ] Add check for correct domain sizes to lazy tensor operations using SizeMismatch
 - [ ] Write down some coding guideline or checklist for code conventions. For example i,j,... for indices and I for multi-index
 - [ ] Add boundschecking in TensorMappingApplication
 - [ ] Start renaming things in LazyTensors
 - [ ] Clean up RegionIndices
    1. [ ] Write tests for how things should work
    2. [ ] Update RegionIndices accordingly
    3. [ ] Fix the rest of the library
    Should getregion also work for getregion(::Colon,...)
 - [ ] Add possibility to create tensor mapping application with `()`, e.g `D1(v) <=> D1*v`?
 - [ ] Add custom pretty printing to LazyTensors/SbpOperators to enhance readability of e.g error messages.
       See (https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/types/#man-custom-pretty-printing)

## Repo
 - [ ] Rename repo to Sbplib.jl

# Wrap up tasks
 - [ ] Kolla att vi har @inbounds och @propagate_inbounds på rätt ställen
 - [ ] Kolla att vi gör boundschecks överallt och att de är markerade med @boundscheck
 - [ ] Kolla att vi har @inline på rätt ställen
 - [ ] Profilera

Commit message:

Review: Address review comment on placement of exports. Export statements should be placed at the top of the module file. Add todo.
--HG--
branch : feature/laplace_opset

TODO.md, after:

# TODO

## Skämskudde
 - [ ] Ändra namn på variabler och funktioner så att det följer style-guide
 - [ ] Skriv tester

## Coding
 - [ ] Add new Laplace operator to DiffOps, probably named WaveEqOp(?!!?)
 - [ ] Create a struct that bundles the necessary Tensor operators for solving the wave equation.
 - [ ] Add a quick and simple way of running all tests for all subpackages.
 - [ ] Replace getindex hack for flattening tuples with flatten_tuple. (eg. `getindex.(range_size.(L.D2),1)`)
 - [ ] Use `@inferred` in a lot of tests.
 - [ ] Make sure we are setting tolerances in tests in a consistent way
 - [ ] Add check for correct domain sizes to lazy tensor operations using SizeMismatch
 - [ ] Write down some coding guideline or checklist for code conventions. For example i,j,... for indices and I for multi-index
 - [ ] Add boundschecking in TensorMappingApplication
 - [ ] Start renaming things in LazyTensors
 - [ ] Clean up RegionIndices
    1. [ ] Write tests for how things should work
    2. [ ] Update RegionIndices accordingly
    3. [ ] Fix the rest of the library
    Should getregion also work for getregion(::Colon,...)
 - [ ] Add possibility to create tensor mapping application with `()`, e.g `D1(v) <=> D1*v`?
 - [ ] Add custom pretty printing to LazyTensors/SbpOperators to enhance readability of e.g error messages.
       See (https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/types/#man-custom-pretty-printing)
 - [ ] Move export statements to top of each module

## Repo
 - [ ] Rename repo to Sbplib.jl

# Wrap up tasks
 - [ ] Kolla att vi har @inbounds och @propagate_inbounds på rätt ställen
 - [ ] Kolla att vi gör boundschecks överallt och att de är markerade med @boundscheck
 - [ ] Kolla att vi har @inline på rätt ställen
 - [ ] Profilera
